# dotslop

Dotslops is a specification and tooling to notate LLM generated code in a monorepo that is mostly human written.

## Why

- I believe (most) LLM generated code is sub-par compared to a good programmer.
- However - also there are cases where the sub-par code is "good enough":
  - Scripts that does not serve a critical function
  - Utility code that serves a single purpose and is behind a strict interface
  - Experimental interfaces, internal UI styling etc.
- However - in a monorepo setup usually those "slops" are mixed with "good code" and it causes mental burden and confusion for developers.
- By developing tooling we can allow the developer to distinguish them at a glance.
- It also allows us to maintain the prompts that generated & edited the code.

### Clarification

- All LLM generated code is not "slops". If it went through (multiple) human reviews and well maintained - it can be considered "good code". Being a "slop" is less about how the code is written and more about how much attention of the author is put into it.
- Similarly - what to do about "slops" is also a separate decision. Depending on the context - slops might require more or less attention on PR's.We will suggest some best practices for different workflows.

## Tooling

- `dotslops` CLI tool that can be used to mark files as slops, and some utilities to browse & manage the `.slops` directory.
- A CLAUDE.md hook that marks all files it edited as "slops".
- A VSCode extension that marks the "slop" files, and can show the prompt(s) that generated a "slop".

## Specification

### Slop marker

A slop is identified by the string:

```
@dotslops [#PROMPTID...] [tag...]
```

* #PROMPTID is an optional identifier of the prompt that generated the slop
* Tags are optional and can be used to further classify "slops". Here are some tags that are conventionally used:
  - `heavy`: Means the file is created or heavily edited by the prompt.
  - `light`: Means only a small portion of the file is edited by the prompt.

#### Locations

##### File header

A file can be marked as a slop by placing the marker within first 4 kilobytes of the file, where it should start with
 a newline and optionally preceded by a comment syntax (e.g. `//`, `#`), optionally followed by whitespace.

Example:

```rust
// @dotslops #PROMPTID tag1 tag2
```

```html
<!-- @dotslops #PROMPTID tag1 tag2 -->
```

#### JSON FILES

In JSON files, as they do not support comments, there should be a string value with the `@dotslops` prefix.

```json
{
  "foo": "@dotslops #PROMPTID tag1 tag2"
}
```

#### .slop

Paths under a directory can also be marked as slops by having a `.slop` file on a directory, that contains the @dotslop marker preceded by a glob pattern. ie.

Mark all files under a directory as slops:

```
* @dotslops #PROMPTID tag1 tag2
```

Mark files matching a glob pattern as slops:

```
**/*.md #PROMPTID tag1 tag2
**/examples/*.json #PROMPTID tag1 tag2
```

### .prompts

The `.prompts` is a directory that contains the "prompts" that generated the "slops". There is a many-to-many relationship between "slops" and "prompts". A "slop" can be generated by zero to many prompts, and a prompt can generate zero-to-many "slops".

Prompts are named by their `PROMPTID` and are plain text files.

## FAQ

### Specification

- Why not add a arbitrary comment to the files like "This file is generated by AI"?
  - We're pretty much doing that - but a bit more structure.
  - We also implement the tooling that automatically manages those comments and prompts.

- Why not .gitattributes:
  - It has a "more specific attribute" wins logic, which means managing slops with other .gitattributes functionality is non-trivial.
  - Having the prompt id in the files make handling moving files easier.

- Why not include the prompts within the file:
  - Single prompt can modify multiple files.
  - A file can be modified by multiple prompts and it would be noisy to have all that information in the file.